National land reform.
Reallocation of agricultural land to landless people. There is extensive land holdings with a small number of owners, which should be distributed fairly to those that work the land. Rural poverty will be alleviated and food security improved through this reform; the rich and wealthy of Rome will not be as happy to see this pass. ~~~ You are in favour of this bill
Agreeing to the Land Reform
Disagreeing to the Land Reform
You bring forward a bill that suggests assisting those who have put themselves into poverty by having little to no ambition with their livelihoods. Why do they deserve an investment like this?
You suggest all the ambition we have shown is solely produced from our inherited wealth? I'm sure you see how misguided that is.
They have not been given chance for ambition. We give them nothing and expect them to create themselves a life from that.
The reason of the Senate is to assist the growth and stability of Rome. Giving the workers the land would increase both their work ethic and morale.
You have bribed and blackmailed your way to this position, so hold your tongue before speaking about deserving investment.
Distributing the lands would remove a singular manager of the land, therefore managing all the resources would become more time consuming and difficult. This would produce counter-productive results.
Most of these workers already know each other. They could easily setup an agreeable communication system for managing the resources.
Removal of a singular manager provides the market with more competitive prices, further decreasing poverty and improving the condition of the slums.
Having a manager who has never worked the fields, therefore having little to no knowledge of how farms work, is more counter-productive.
From what I am aware, your time as the singular manager makes managing all the resources time consuming and difficult, so it would only be an improvement for your holdings at least.
There would be a period of Anarchy as possession of land is divided and redistributed; such a period would cause a loss in productivity and public disorder.
The majority would be pleased with this reform; there would be a net public order increase, just not within the richer citizens.
This Anarchy would not be to a scale that would produce such negative effects. Even so, it could be handled simply should the case arise.
Division and redistribution is not an extensive task. It could easily be completed before any disorder is produced.
I assume you know of this disorder as you would be the one to fuel it from behind the scenes?
Would your holdings be included within this bill or have you opted to be left out of the redistribution?
Well the bill does not say I am not to be included so that says it all.
It would be quite underhand to not include myself.
All the land will be redistributed, which includes mine and senators from both parties. There is no one omitted.
Of course, we're all not as selfish as you.
This is very clearly targetted at certian Senators, what will happen to those that cannot provide towards this bill?
There is nothing we can really do as they do not hold any land.
Unless you extend the bill to include a way to force some kind of assistance, nothing currently.
This is a bill about land distribution, irregardless of who holds the land. So to answer your question, nothing.
Well unsurprisingly, nothing, as they hold no lands. That should have been obvious without explanation.
How will you select who these lands are going to be distributed to? Surely it will not be to random citizens?
Well it cannot be anyone with land holdings as that goes against the objective of the Bill.
It will be randomly selected poor citizens.
It would go to the unlanded urban poor, in order to give them purpose, empty the slums and reduce public disorder.
Citizen's will be selected by their wealth, so thankfully you will not be included.
What happens when the land is distributed to people without any knowledge on how to use the land given to them.
The ability to farm can be taught, so there is no need to worry about this detail.
This is not an issue, everyone can farm.
We make sure that the land is distributed to people with a minimum base knowledge on farming, or the capability to do learn.
Although you've never worked a day in your life, even you must know how simple farming is.
Hannibal of Carthage.
Our largest and greatest rivals, Carthage, have had a strong animosity towards Rome since the end of our war against them. Rome signed a treaty with Carthage 30 years ago yet relations with the Carthaginian's have never stabilised. They have shown hostility both in military positioning and diplomatic talks. They even refuse to hand over Hannibal for his direct breaking of the treaty we signed. ~~~ You are looking to retain peace and find a diplomatic solution
Declaring War
Continue Diplomatic Talks
Hannibal has recently taken the town of Saguntum... Which is under the special protection of Rome! He has made the decision that peace is not an option any longer! 
And where were our Legions while Saguntum was besieged? We offered no support to those under Rome's protection; we cannot use our shortcomings against one rebelling Carthaginian lead us to war. 
Rome was aware of Hannibal's intentions; it has taken him 8 months to successfully take Saguntum. Yet we sent our legions east not west showing weakness and we need to reassert our authority.
It's clear this decision has been taken from our hands, but let us not be hasty. Send the Carthaginian's a warning, a new treaty they must sign.
Everyone makes mis-steps. We should use this as an opportunity to strengthen our diplomatic relations with the Carthagians. 
We have demanded for Hannibal to be handed to us for breaking terms of the treaty by crossing the Erbo river, and the Carthaginian oligarchy has refused. We cannot allow this insubordination!
If the treaty has been broken he must be brought to justice, if the Carthaginian oligarchy will protect him, then they must fall.
There will be a diplomatic approach to persuading the Carthaginian oligarchy to handing Hannibal over for justice; patience is key.
Both diplomacy and demand has failed to garner any results. Our Legions will provide the desired effect.
You falsify the the facts. He never did cross the Erbo river, therefore he has not broken the treaty.
We have trusted information that the Saguntines provoked Hannibal by attacking their neighboring tribes who were Carthaginian protectorates. His actions appear are justified.
It is clear that Rome cannot currently afford another Punic War; money, supplies, food, Legions. We need a diplomatic solution.
Rome has no legal protection pacts with any tribes south of the Ebro River. Why should we need to intervene in foreign affairs?
If the Saguntines have provoked Hannibal we may be wise to discuss terms for a new treaty. Maintaining peace would be preferable.
Rome may not have no legal protection pact, yet we have agreed to protect Saguntum. Hannibal has challenged us and it is only right to put him in his place!
What are we going to tell the citizens who have lost family and friends to Hannibal already?
That their sacrifice has not been in vain as we have brought Hannibal to justice.
That we are sorry for their loss but this is the better outcome.
That we are bringing an end to the death and destruction by bringing Hannibal to a diplomatic justice, more would prefer that to revenge with more death.
It would not matter because with the compassion you have shown to the citizen's over the year, they would not believe it.
Why would the Carthaginians discuss peace if they have already decided to back Hannibal's actions?
We are not Barbaric, we are Romans, we must try to find a diplomatic solution.
If we try our hardest we may be able to persuade them away from supporting Hannibal.
We vastly out match the Carthaginian's on the battlefield, they are well aware of this and will seek at peaceful solution.
As some of us have more diplomatic skill than you and the common barbarian.
We clearly have the stronger armies, we should just send our legions over to deal with them and be done with the issue.
Let us show a different kind of strength and diplomatically call for an amnesty.
That is a worthy plan B should we need it.
Yet we would still lose thousands of men in the battles that would ensue, let us speak of peace rather than risk the lives of our citizens in revenge.
That would be most befitting of you, have someone else do the hard work to make your job easier.
Is it not obvious the Carthaginians are looking for us to give them a weaker treaty, just bribe them and they will submit again.
Bribery is not an option, we should talk with them and find a treaty that works for us both.
That is a potential plan B should diplomacy fail.
As Romans, we cannot afford to allow our reputation to become tarnished by dealing in underhand tactics such as bribery or blackmail.
Bribery may have brought you your position in the Senate, but it is not the answer for everything.
If you see this text, then something has gone wrong. D: